add blog tags and post discussing SBOMs (#752)
fluxcd/website: content/en/blog/2022-02-09-security-the-value-of-sboms/index.md

  stack

Because it is structured data, all of the above can be done in an
automated, programmatic fashion.

Big organizations, corporate or governmental, already keep track of
SBOMs and make decisions based on the information provided there. Some
started requiring SBOMs for software in-use.

### Possible use-cases for SBOMs

Here are a couple more concrete examples of what the SBOMs for Flux
allow you to do:

- Security alerts of dependencies will be the most obvious use-case.
  If a CVE is detected, you can inspect your SBOM and see if the
  components you are using are in any way affected.
- It will be easy to identify when a certain component was created and
  how. In addition to that, having the licensing information of all
  the pieces, you better know what you can do with it (redistribute,
  change, etc).
- Automation allows you to send alerts, if a compliance issue is
  detected, e.g. if the licensing of updated/replaced dependencies
  changes.
- Missing components or required build files. Incompatible licenses
  and more.

One example of automating all of this could be to store SBOMs in <https://grafeas.io/>. This way you could search across your Estate for:

> - Find all images that are built from a particular Github commit that is known to have introduced a security problem.

Reviewer: Without the "find all" from each example aligns better with the preceding statement:
```suggestion
- Images that are built from a particular Github commit that is known to have introduced a security problem.
```

- Find all images that were built by a certain version of a certain builder when that builder is known to have been compromised.
- Find all images in my project that are impacted by `CVE-1234`.

> For policy enforcement, combining SBOMs with grafeas and [kritis](https://github.com/grafeas/kritis) would enable auto-blocking of any application that is vulnerable to a specific CVE for example. This is the basis of <https://cloud.google.com/binary-authorization/>, which goes a step further from SBOM and also touches attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For policy enforcement, [kritis](https://github.com/grafeas/kritis) can be used to leverage the information provided by SBOMs inside Grafeas to enforce policies inside of a cluster, enabling auto-blocking of applications that are vulnerable to a specific CVE for example.
```

I am not sure we should mention attestation at this point in time. Potentially later on referring to some things we implement in the Flux project.

So what is a SBOM? It's short for Software Bill of Materials. Wikipedia
defines it as

> A **software bill of materials** (SBOM) is a list of components in a
> piece of software. Software vendors often create products by
> assembling open source and commercial software components. The SBOM
> describes the components in a product. It is analogous to a list of
> ingredients on food packaging: where you might consult a label to
> avoid foods that may cause allergies, SBOMs can help organizations or
> persons avoid consumption of software that could harm them.
>
> The concept of a BOM is well-established in traditional manufacturing
> as part of supply chain management. A manufacturer uses a BOM to track
> the parts it uses to create a product. If defects are later found in a
> specific part, the BOM makes it easy to locate affected products.

For the Flux project we publish a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) with
each release. The SBOM is generated with
[Syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft) in the
[SPDX](https://spdx.dev/) format.

![SPDX logo](featured-image.png)

The `spdx.json` file is available for download on the GitHub release page
e.g.:

```shell

> curl -sL https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/download/v0.25.3/flux\_0.25.3\_sbom.spdx.json | jq

Reviewer 2: Why the `\`? This works fine ` curl -sL https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/download/v0.25.3/flux_0.25.3_sbom.spdx.json | jq`
